Journal Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m_9xUWkEfR8


Week 1 Weekly Reflection
I've had a chance to look over the course intro and try to get a feel for how this course will 
be structured. I have really enjoyed having this week to try to get things in order and figured 
out, it's nice not getting thrown into the deep end and just having to sink or swim right off 
the bat. My programming isn't as strong as I'd like it to be so I hope I can contribute my fair 
share to the group. I know this course will be challenging but I'll try my best and hope I can 
do well.

Week 1 Personal Journal
I'm quite nervous about this class, I've heard it can be difficult and I'm not very confident 
in my programming skills. I think this class is going to unlike any other class I've encountered
here and that can be both good and bad. I want to learn the things I don't know but I hope I can 
do it without failing the first time around and having to retake it. 
 
 
 Week 2 Weekly Reflection
I've had a pretty nice week. I would definitely say that coming up with an idea was probably what
made me struggle the most. I don't consider myself an overly creative person so having to come up 
with an idea out of thin air just like that wasn't the easiest for me. I've been looking back at 
the notes and everything about how the class will be structured trying to get an even better 
understanding of the class and the video posted by Bro. Tuckett helped out a ton. I can feel the 
weeks to come are going to be challenging but hopefully I can take it a week at a time and learn 
the things I need to in order to be successful in this class.

Week 2 Personal Journal
Still pretty nervous, it's hard to be positive about this class but I think it is all just fear, fear
of failing. I know this is going to take a lot more work than some of my previous classes and I hope
I'm up to the challenge. I want to figure out these new technologies and hopefully become more confident
in my work. 


Week 3 Weekly Reflection
I wasn't able to make my first team meeting due to traveling that evening but I was able to review 
their video. Taking a look at all the topics we have to cover is starting to get a little overwhelming. 
I feel that this will be extremely challenging since I've never even heard of many of these topics but 
I guess I'll try to make it work. I'm glad we have a good team and can get help from them if needed. 
I'll definitely make the next group meeting so I can do my part and move forward.

Week 3 Personal Journal
This week I had to rush back to Houston for a few days. I officially became a United States citizen and 
they decided to have the appoint in the middle of the week. I don't know why I waited so long to become
a citizen but I guess I just never realized how important it is. I'm so blessed to be in a place
that has freedom of religion and free speech. These are freedoms that we sometimes take for granted
and we shouldn't. 

Week 4 Weekly Reflection
This week has been quite hectic. I've had so much to get done and family stuff going on as well. 
Worked on trying to understand sockets, key word being trying. It's a process that I'm finding out 
is going to take more work from me than I normally anticipated. I know I haven't understood the topic 
as well as I should but I still believe that I can buckle down and do the extra work I need to in order 
to do well in this class. 

Week 4 Personal Journal
All of these topics are so daunting. A big part of me is just afraid of failing, afraid of realizing
just how much I don't know but I should at this point in my schooling. I guess even if that is the
case running away isn't the answer, fixing it by learning is what I need to be focusing on. There
are a lot of things that are worse than a bad grade, worse than failing a class, I shouldn't be 
so afraid because even if I don't do well in covering these topics and in this class it will be a 
learning experience that I can grow from and better myself by just experiencing it.

Week 5 Weekly Reflection
Team meeting went well this week. I've been gathering information from sites and other resources I can 
find to try and understand a few of these technologies. I've realized how essential our teams are going 
to be throughout the process so it is nice to have a good variety when it comes to teammates. I think 
this coming up week I will be able to make some good process since it's going to be a pretty light week 
for me so hopefully with I can make some good things happen.

Week 5 Personal Journal
I've definitely had to rely on Google so much, there is a vast amount of information on these topics 
online and trying to find good data can be overwhelming. I'm grateful to have a team for this class, 
they are a good resource to find out what worked for them and what didn't. Most of us are in a similar
spot where we haven't heard of many of these topics but we will learn together. It is "different" not 
having a "show and tell" type of learning from the instructor and having to rely on ourselves to make
sure we find good information on the Internet... I don't know how much I like this approach but I can
see benefits to it. 

Week 6 Weekly Reflection
What was originally going to be a pretty free week for me ended up being incredibly busy. I guess when 
you plan for something it never goes the way you originally planned, but such is life. I was able to 
get some topics covered and learn a few items. I'm still not where I'd like to be in terms of 
understanding many of these topics but I'm going to keep at it. The sharing videos everyone is posting 
definitely help and I'm very grateful for them. I'm having to make some adjustments to my current schedule 
in order to free up more time so I can dedicate a lot more time to this class. I'm trying to make sure 
I can do everything possible in order to do well in this class since the end of the semester will creep 
up and I do not want to be stressing out at the end.

Week 6 Personal Journal
Life is busy, but I have to accept it and take it as it comes. There is no point in complaining because 
it doesn't get you anywhere. I have to realize that some weeks will be better than others and I won't 
always be able to dedicate time to fun or to personal life because I have to prioritize my life so that
I can be successful in the future. That's not to say it should be all work and no play but I have to 
know when to say enough fun now let me work. I've been trying this semester to not do homework on Sunday
and leave it as a full day for the Lord. Sunday homework is something that I've never really tried to 
stop in my past semesters but I felt like I needed to make that change this time around. So far it has
been pretty good, it has been nice to have a day where I don't have to think about java or school in general.

Week 7 Weekly Reflection
This week was spent trying to research UML diagrams and how to create them. I feel that I've found some 
good information on them which helped me understand them a little more than when I was first introduced 
to UML diagrams in the CIT262 course. I had to travel down to SLC mid week but still made an effort to 
keep learning and working on my progression. I'm hoping to dedicate some solid time this next week and 
learn more over topics I know nothing about. 

Week 7 Personal Journal
I drove down to Draper, UT on Saturday to meet up with some friends and it was a fantastic time. I know
work wise I did not get a whole lot done but it was a nice change getting away from Rexburg. I like the
small town but at times it can get a little hard to be in a place with people who you don't know too well.
I heard from my folks that they are planning to come up to school to visit sometime before the semester ends
which will be great. I miss having family around. I have to continue to do well in my schooling and try 
to keep moving forward.

Week 8 Weekly Reflection
I've been trying to fight off the procrastination. I don't want to fall into the same hole I have in 
previous semesters and find myself struggling to dig myself out. It's been a crazy week, lot of good 
things happening and a few not so good. I've been working on a few of the topics and still struggling 
to understand some others. I'm hoping this coming up week will be a good one and I can at least get a 
few more topics up to the disagree before the cut off. 

Week 8 Personal Journal
It's difficult to keep going when I realize just how difficult this topics are. I'm definitely taking 
the "little by little" approach but I may be going too slow. I have a difficult time understanding these
complex topics. My teammates to help and they've done so much to help out. I know out in the real world
and in my future career I'm going to encounter this exact situation so I need to figure out how to deal
with the stress now so when it happens in the future I won't be caught off guard.  

Week 9 Weekly Reflection
I've been focusing on trying to keep moving forward, taking it a day at a time. It's been a pretty busy 
week for me filled with ups and downs but I'm sure that is how the remainder of the semester will be. 
I'm trying to work on some small examples of the technologies so I can better understand them. I've gone 
back and tried to review again some of the research I've been finding online so I can get a better 
understanding. Hopefully I can get a few technologies moved up and give my grade a much needed boost. 

Week 9 Personal Journal
It is discouraging seeing my grade so low and so little time left in the semester. I really want to pass 
this course and do well. Some of these technologies I've learned are actually pretty cool and I'm glad
I've had a chance to discover them. I know there is still so much left in front of me and tons to cover
but I'm not giving up. I've found myself going more frequent to the temple trying to find a peaceful 
place to try and forget about the stress of everyday life. 

Week 10 Weekly Reflection
Been working with MVC and Java Collections this week. I enjoyed diving in and learning more about these 
topics and feel like I got some good work done. Had a ward hike today and I'm grateful to be up in Idaho 
for the Spring semester where there are so many gorgeous spots to travel to close by. With the semester 
coming to an end soon I realized I still have quite a bit to cover but hopefully everything will work out 
in the end.

Week 10 Personal Journal
I've had quite a bit of change in my "non school" life... my normal, everyday life I guess you can say.
Becoming more involved within my ward has helped my relax and find opportunities to serve other and 
I think that is carrying over to how I see school. I know school is extremely important but I think I 
may have ignored the spiritual side of the equation because of that. It is a great feeling to know I'm 
almost done and can head back to Texas and be around people I love. 

Week 11 Weekly Reflection
It was a pretty good week. I feel like I learned quite a bit from the topics I covered but still have a 
good bit of ground left to cover. I was able to check out the firework show in Idaho Falls and it was amazing,
the traffic trying to leave... not so much. I'm excited for the semester to wrap up so I can travel back home 
and be with family but until then I'll have to keep working and make sure I do well in this class.

 Week 11 Personal Journal
This is close to the end, I have quite a bit more to get done but I hope things turn out well. I think this 
class has been a great experience and has forced me to do things I normally would not have. I was terrified of 
this class at the beginning and while I'm still a little scared of doing poorly and failing it isn't as bad
as at the start. I might be leaving to go back home about a week early so I hope I can still find time to 
work on the remaining of the work while I travel back home. I will be happy when the semester is over and I can
breath and now how much I have grown up. 
 
 
 